ðŸ‘‰          STL Standard Template Libray
-> The C++ STL (Standard Template Library) is a powerful set of C++ template classes to provide general-purpose classes and functions 
   with templates that implement many popular and commonly used algorithms and data structures like vectors, lists, queues, and stacks.

->COMPONENTS OF STL
âœ…Containers
âœ…iterators
âœ…Algorithms
âœ…Function Operator

ðŸ‘‰                Containers
-> Containers can be described as the objects that hold the data of the same type. 
   Containers are used to implement different data structures for example arrays, list, trees, etc.

->List of Few Containers
âœ…Vector
âœ…List
âœ…Set
âœ…Multiset
âœ…Map
âœ…Multimap
âœ…Stack
âœ…Queue
âœ…Priority Queue

ðŸ‘‰Classification of Containers
-> Sequence containers
->Associative containers
-> Derived containers

-> Each container class contains a set of functions
   that can be used to manipulate the contents.
                        
                        Container
        Sequence container       Associative container           Derived containers
        
        vector                    set                               stack
        deque                     multiset                          queue
        list                      map                               priority_queue
                                  multimap
        
ðŸ‘‰                                                                  Adaptive Containers

                                                Is order Important --- yes ---> Last In, First out --No-->Last In, First out --No --> priority_queue
                                                    |                                  |                           | 
                                                    |                                 yes                         yes
                                                    |                                  â¬‡ï¸                         â¬‡ï¸                               
                                                    No                                Stack                       Queue  
                                                    |
                                                    |
                                                    â¬‡ï¸
                                                Allow Duplicates ?
                                                    |
                                ---------------------------------------------------------
                                |                                                       |
                                No                                                     yes
                                |                                                       |
                            Map key to value                                     Map key to value
                                |                                                       |
            -----------------------------------------               ---------------------------------------
            |                                       |               |                                     |
            |                                       |               |                                     |
           yes                                      no              yes                                  No
            |                                       |               |                                     |
           â¬‡ï¸                                      â¬‡ï¸              â¬‡ï¸                                   â¬‡ï¸
           Unordered_map                       Ordered_map      Unordered_multiMap                     Unordered_multiSet


ðŸ‘‰ Iterator
-> Iterators are pointer-like entities used to access the individual elements in a container.
-> Iterators are moved sequentially from one element to another element. 
   This process is known as iterating through a container.

-----------------
|           1   |
|  array    2  <--------- vector<int>::iterator
|           3   |                           ^
|---------------|                           |
|size 3         |                         Pointer
-----------------                       

ðŸ‘‰                        Agorithms
->  Algorithms are the functions used across a variety of containers for processing its contents.

âœ…Algorithms are not the member functions of a container, but they are the standalone template functions.
âœ…Algorithms save a lot of time and effort.
âœ…If we want to access the STL algorithms, we must include the <algorithm> header file in our program.

ðŸ‘‰                  Function Objects
-> The STL includes classes that overload the function call operator. Instances of such classes are called function objects or functors. 
   Functors allow the working of the associated function to be customized with the help of parameters to be passed.
-> The C++ Standard Library uses function objects primarily as sorting criteria for containers and in algorithms.
-> Function objects provide two main advantages over a straight function call. 
   The first is that a function object can contain state. 
   The second is that a function object is a type and therefore can be used as a template parameter

ðŸ‘‰                  Array class in C++
-> The introduction of array class from C++11 has offered a better alternative for C-style arrays.
   The advantages of array class over C-style array are
-> Array classes knows its own size, whereas C-style arrays lack this property. 
   So when passing to functions, we don't need to pass size of Array as a separate parameter.
-> Array classes are generally more efficient, light-weight and reliable than C-style arrays.

ðŸ‘‰                         Array class in C++
Operations on array :-
1. at()-This function is used to access the elements of array.
2.get()-This function is also used to access the elements of array. 
        This function is not the member of array class but overloaded function from class tuple.
3. operator[]- This is similar to C-style arrays. This method is also used to access array elements.
4. front() -This returns the first element of array.
5. back()- This returns the last element of array.
6. size()- It returns the number of elements in array.
7. max_size() - It returns the maximum number of elements array can hold i.e, the size
with which array is declared. The size() and max_size() return the same value.
8. Swap()- The swap() swaps all elements of one array with other.
9. empty()- This function returns true when the array size is zero else returns false.
10. fill() -This function is used to fill the entire array with a particular value.

ðŸ‘‰                       Vector Container
-> Vectors are same as dynamic arrays with the ability to resize itself automatically when an element is inserted or deleted, 
   with their storage being handled automatically by the container.

ðŸ‘‰                                    Vector Container
1.begin()-Returns an iterator pointing to the first element in the vector
2.endl()-Returns an iterator pointing to the theoretical element that follows the last element
in the vector
3.rbegin()-Returns a reverse iterator pointing to the last element in the vector (reverse
beginning(). It moves from last to first element
4.rend()- Returns a reverse iterator pointing to the theoretical element preceding the first
element in the vector (considered as reverse end)
5.size()-Returns the number of elements in the vector.
6.max size() - Returns the maximum number of elements that the vector can hold.
7.capacity()- Returns the size of the storage space currently allocated to the vector expressed
as number of elements.
8.resize(n) -Resizes the container so that it contains 'n' elements.
9.empty()- Returns whether the container is empty.
10.shrink to fit()- Reduces the capacity of the container to fit its size and destroys all
elements beyond the capacity.
11.reserve()-Requests that the vector capacity be at least enough to contain n elements.

Element access:
1.at(g)- Returns a reference to the element at position 'g' in the vector
2.front()- Returns a reference to the first element in the vector
3.back()- Returns a reference to the last element in the vector
4.data()- Returns a direct pointer to the memory array used internally by the vector to st
its owned elements.

Modifiers:
1.assign()-It assigns new value to the vector elements by replacing old ones
2.push back()- It push the elements into a vector from the back
3.pop back() - It is used to pop or remove elements from a vector from the back.
4.insert() - inserts new elements before the element at the specified position
5.erase()-It is used to remove elements from a container from the specitied position or
range.
6.Swapl()-It is used to swap the contents of one vector with another vector of same type.
Sizes may differ.
7.clear()-It is used to remove all the elements of the vector container

ðŸ‘‰                                  List Container
->  Lists are sequence containers that allow constant time insert and erase
    operations anywhere within the sequence, and iteration in both directions.
âœ… List cotainers are implemented as doubly-linked lists;
    a link to the element preceding it and a link to the element following it.
âœ… They are very similar to forward_list.
âœ… The main difference being that forwardlist objects are single-linked lists, and thus
    they can only be iterated forwards, in exchange for being somewhat smaller and more efficient.


1.front() - Returns the value of the first element in the list.
2.back() - Returns the value of the last element in the list.
3.push_front(g) - Adds a new element 'g' at the beginning of the list.
4.push_back(g) - Adds a new element 'g' at the end of the list.
5.pop_front() - Removes the first element of the list, and reduces size of the list by 1.
6.pop_back - Removes the last element of the list, and reduces size of the list by 1.

ðŸ‘‰                                     Forward List Container

Forward list in STL implements singly linked list. Introduced from C++11, forward list are
more useful than other containers in insertion, removal, and moving operations (like sort)
and allow time constant insertion and removal of elements.
1. assign(): This function is used to assign values to the forward list, its other variant is used to
assign repeated elements and using the values of another list.
2. push_front(): This function is used to insert the element at the first position on forward list.
fhe value from this function is copied to the space betore first element in the container. The
size of forward list increases by 1.
3. pop_front(): This function is used to delete the first element of the list.
4. insert_after(): This function gives us a choice to insert elements at any position in forward
list. The arguments in this function are copied at the desired position.
5. erase_after(): This function is used to erase elements from a particular position in the
forward list. There are two variants of 'erase after function.

ðŸ‘‰                                     Dequeue Container
Double-ended queues are sequence containers with the feature of expansion and"
contraction on both ends. They are similar to vectors, but are more efficient in case of
insertion and deletion of elements. The functions for deque are same as vector, with an
addition of push and pop operations for both front and back.
q.size() : 4
q.max_size(): 4611686018427387903
q.at(2):10
q.front () : 15
q.back() : 30
q.pop_front (): 20 10 30
q.pop_back() : 20 10

ðŸ‘‰                                             Stack Container
Stacks are a type of container adaptors with LIFO(Last In First Out) type of working, wrere a
new element is added at one end (top) and an element is removed from that end only.

The functions associated with stack are:
empty()- Returns whether the stack is empty -Time Complexity: O(1)
size()- Returns the size of the stack- Time Complexity: O(1)
top()- Returns a reference to the top most element of the stack - Time Complexity : O(1)
push(g)-Adds the element 'g' at the top of the stack Time Complexity: O(1)
pop()-Deletes the top most element of the stack - Time Complexity: O(1)

ðŸ‘‰                                      Queue Container
Queues are a type of container adaptors which operate in a first in first out(FIFO).
type of arrangement. Elements are inserted at the back (end) and are deleted fron
the front.

ðŸ‘‰                                       Priority Queue Container
Priority queues are a type of container adapters, specifically designer sucn tuat
the first element of the queue is the greatest of all elements in the queue and
elements are in non increasing order (hence we can see that each element of the
queue has a priority {fixed order}
.
We can pass another parameter whilÄ™ creating the priority queue to make it a min heap.
C++ provides the below syntax for the same.

Syntax:
priority_queue <int, vector<int>, greater<int>> g = q;

ðŸ‘‰                                         Set Container
-> Sets are a type of associative containers in which each element has to unique
   because the value of the element identifies it. The values are stored in a specific
   order.
âœ…The set stores the elements in sorted order.
âœ…All the elements in a set have unique values.
âœ…The value of the element cannot be modified once it is added
   to the set, though it is possible to remove and then add the
   modified value of that element. Thus, the values are immutable.
âœ…Sets follow the Binary search tree implementation.
âœ…The values in a set are unindexed.


ðŸ‘‰                                    Map Container
Maps are associative containers that store elements in a mapped fashion. Each
element has a key and a mapped value. No two mapped values can have same
key values.

ðŸ‘‰                                        Mutimap Container
Multimap is similar to map with an addition that multiple elements can have same
keys. Also, it is NOT required that the key value and mapped value pair has to be
unique in this case. One important thing to note about multimap is that multimap
keeps all the keys in sorted order always.

ðŸ‘‰                                           Unordered Set Container
An unordered_set is implemented using a hash table where keys are hashed into indices of a
hash table so that the insertion is always randomized. All operations on
the unordered_set takes constant time O(1) on an average which can go up to linear
time O(n) in worst case which depends on the internally used hash function.

The find() function returns an iterator to end() if
key is not there in set, otherwise an iterator to
the key position is returned.

ðŸ‘‰                   Unordered Map Container
an unordered_map is like a data structure of dictionary type that stores elements in itself. It
contains successive pairs (key, value), which allows fast retrieval of an individual element based
on its unique key.

ðŸ‘‰                   Unordered MuitilMap Container
we can not store duplicates in unordered_map, that is if we have a key-value pair already in our
unordered_multimap and another pair is inserted, then both will be there whereas in case of
unordered map the previous value corresponding to the key is updated by the new value that
is only would be there. Even can exist in unordered_multimap twice.